Process Vendor File (PVF) is a tool for preprocessing MARC records received from vendors to ensure their proper import to our ILSes.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PVF functionality:
- searches Sierra to find out what records we already have
- protects inhouse records from being overlaid by vendor bibs
- in case of NYPL, ensures that records are matched to proper RL or BL libraries and prevents creation of mixed records
- reports duplicate or call number errors in vendor bibs
- validates MARC records to adhere to MARC21 rules
- validates vendor records against specification set for each vendor (in works)
- adds constant data from templates to incoming new records
- archives all vendor data and its statistical breakdown

PVF procedure:
1. Select system (NYPL or BPL), destination (research or branches), and
   department (cataloging, selection, or acquisition); note, if BPL selected the
   destination will automatically set to blank and the combo box will become
   inactive - that is expected behaviour.
2. Select target database and its accesing method (only databases and methods
   for selected system are displayed)
   a) for NYPL select "NYPL PROD (Platofrm API)"
   b) for BPL select "BPL PROD (Z3950)"
3. For Selection and Acquisition departmetns optionally apply templates from
   a drop down menu. New templates or modifications to existing templates can
   be accessed via the small button with a wrench icon to the right of the
   templates drop-down menu.
4. Select MARC file(s) for processing (click, drag, use ctrl/shift to select
    multiple files)
5. Files to be processed can be downloaded to your machine by using the 
   'get via FTP' button if the vendor makes them available through a
   FTP service.
6. Uncheck 'previous output directory' if you would like to save the processed
   files in a new location. The program will prompt for a new
   location after process is initiated (i.e. after clicking on the 'process' button).
   Checked 'previous output directory' will save processed files in a previously
   used folder - mouse-over the label to look up the destination.
7. Check validations to be performed (optional)
    a) MARCEdit validation - each selected file will be send automatically to
       MARCEdit and its MARC21 syntax validation report will be available for
       viewing by clicking on the 'validation' button
    b) local specs validation - checks if vendor records adhere to supplied to
       them specifications
8. Launch processing (click 'process' button)
    a) PVF will first attempt to validate records; 
        unsucessful validation will result in termination of the processing;
        please fix the records or unselect validation to continue
    b) PVR will query the specificed database for matching records
    e) If matches are found PVR will add Sierra bib number to a vendor record
    f) Next, PVR will add any constant data if specified (via applied template or automatically in case of cataloging dept.)
    g) PVR will save records into "YYYYMMDD.NEW-0.mrc"/"YYYYMMDD.DUP-0.mrc" (cataloging) or "[originalname].PRC-0.mrc" (selection and acquisition) files based on results of the query results and its analysis
    h) Successful operation should result in a pop-up window displaying
       a summary of the records batch
9. Archive records (optional, but highly recommended!)
    b) saves statistics of the processed batch
    a) moves vendor files to Archive folder on the shared drive
10. Display session statistics ('stats' button)